Hello everyone and welcome to the K means clustering custom code along lecture.
So we're going to be working through a real dataset containing some data on three distinct seed types
and the corresponding notebook for this lecture is called clustering code along.
And you can find it under the clustering folder under Sparke for machine learning of the spark notes.
So for a certain machine learning algorithms sometimes it's a good idea to actually scale your data.
And this is due to something called curse of dimensionality which you can read about in an introduction
to Cisco learning.
But basically what happens is you have a drop in model performance with highly dimensional data.
So we're going to get some practice scaling features using Paice park.
While it may not be necessary for this particular dataset that we work with later on if you're dealing
with a dataset that has many many features to it or many columns of data which is highly dimensional
work what you need to do is actually scale those features so we'll show you how to do that.
Paice park and get some practice.
Now remember there won't be any confusion matrix or classification test results when dealing with unsupervised
learning.
Meaning we don't have the original labels to actually perform some sort of test again.
And again I keep mentioning this issue that it's a little hard to evaluate an unsupervised learning
algorithm for truth because you never have those true labels to begin with.
So this is a common point of confusion for beginners.
You can't easily check to see how well you're clustering algorithm perform.
And this is a difficulty for all unsupervised tasks.
And if this is something that is a confusing point for you then I suggest you do the reading and an
introduction to statistical learning that explains the unsupervised learning process and clustering
algorithms in general.
So let's get started to open up a new Jupiter notebook and walk through the data as well as the process
or start a new notebook.
And the first thing I'm going to do is actually start a spark session so I'll do this quickly since
we've done it so many times before.
Sparke session builder app name and I'll just call this cluster and then I'm going to get or create
this Sparke session.
Now the next step is to explore the data and what it actually looks like.
It's just a simple see as the data set so we can say spark that read see a city and this dataset is
called seed's underscore the data set that CXXVI and then will say Hetter is true.
And we'll also say infer schema is true and else take a look at the data set schema.
So I'll say print schema.
Now we can see here we have various columns area parameter compactness etc..
So let me give you a little bit of background behind the data set.
So this is a seed data set and it's obtained from the University of California Irvine machine learning
repository and the link is in the notebook that corresponds to this lecture.
And basically what this is is an experiment in visualizing kernels and their actual features.
So a group got some kernels for three different varieties of wheat that is Khama Rosa and Canadien and
there were seven the elements each.
And we randomly select them for this experiment.
And what they ended up doing was they created a really high quality visualization of the internal kernel
that is the seed structure that was detected using an X-ray technique.
So what they ended up doing is taking a bunch of geometric parameters using those X-ray pictures.
Things like the area of the kernel the perimeter of the kernel the length with cetera.
So you have all these characteristics and all of these values are just real valued continuous numbers.
If we take a look at what an example looks like.
So if I say to the head of one notice here I have the area parameter x that are there all essentially
just numbers so these are all just features of those actual seed and kernels.
Now we don't have that many features that dimensions here.
And actually either all around the same magnitude from 0 to maybe around 25 ish.
So as far as scaling goes it will probably not be necessary but we're going to work through that anyways.
OK.
So again one more thing to notice here is that there's no actual label indicating what seed belongs
to what group.
What I do know however is there was three different varieties of wheat.
So what we're going to try to do is Cluster this with K equals 3 and that's essentially our domain knowledge
comes into play.
So maybe you're out with these experimenter's you're out in the field collecting samples and through
your domain knowledge you know that there's three possible seed types to be found in this field.
However you don't know what seeds you collect there or something and you want to close them.
Knowing your theory there may knowledge into three separate groups so that's kind of an example of using
your domain knowledge.
So we'll continue along here and we'll say from PI sparked the M-L clustering import Kamins.
All right now we're going to do is actually format that data so we can say from Paice bark M-L feature
import and import a vector assembler.
And then if we take a look at the columns remember that this is an unsupervised learning algorithm.
And luckily I only have feature columns here and this is a python list which is exactly what I would
usually pass to my assembler object.
So instead of the input column argument going to be a list I will just pass in this dataset that columns
objects Let me show what I mean by that.
And going to create my assembler set equal to vector assembler and specify that the input calls argument
is going to be data set columns instead of having to copy and paste all that.
And then finally the next thing I want is my output column to be called features so now will run that
and then the next thing I'm going to do is just transform this file have final data is equal to my assembler
object and then I'm going to transform my dataset and if I take a look at my final data and print the
schema I can see here it has these various columns but more importantly it has the features column.
Now in the past what we've done is just select the features column that actually a lot of these machine
learning algorithm objects.
They don't mind having a bunch of extra columns.
They won't read them and they won't do anything of them but they're really looking for is the features
column or the label column in this case we don't need a label.
We're really just needing that particular features column.
So we'll just keep final data as is.
And now what I want to do is work through the ceiling of the data.
So in order to scale the data it's actually quite simple.
I will say from Paice park the M-L in the feature family will say import standard scaler and then this
is almost like creating an assembler object will say scalar is equal to a standard scalar object where
we expect the input column to be equal to features and we expect the output column to be equal to and
we'll call this wups pasand a string here we'll call the scaled features and then there's other parameters
here and if you do shift tab over at standard scaler you can explore them.
But essentially what you can do is with mean or with standard deviation.
So essentially just describes how you actually want to do the scaling itself.
So you want to do with the mean or do you want to do it with the standard deviation.
Then you can actually check here the Wikipedia page in case you want more information about the background
behind the mathematics behind that we'll just keep the default.
That should be fine for us.
So we'll run that scalar object and then we're going to fit that to the final data.
So I'm going to make a scalar model variable and that's going to be scalar fits on the final data.
It's almost behaving just like a machine learning object.
So you fit it to the final data and then you transform the final data.
So I'm going to overwrite my final data and then say scaler model and then transform my final data and
some people like to do this all in one step.
So they put this transform right over here.
After that that fit and just doing in two steps so you can get an idea of what's happening.
So basically we're happening at what is happening here is this scalar object.
When you fit it to this final data it collects that standard deviation information and then it sets
into the scalar model.
So the scarer model is then ready to collect anything in the form of final data and now can transform
it to be scaled which is what happens when called transform.
So that's kind of what these two steps are doing here.
All right so now let's actually take a look at what final data looks like.
If we take a look at the head notice we have our features column and then we have our scaled features
column.
Now in this case as I mentioned everything seems to be around the same order of magnitude.
So the scaling isn't going to be such a big deal here.
So you can see that there is a change between the features and the scaled features but it's not a huge
change.
This becomes more important when you have not just high mentions of data meaning many features but you
also have orders of magnitude varying a lot between your actual data.
So maybe you have one column that's in units of thousands of miles or something and then you have another
column that's in units of millimeters.
Those kind of things can also be improved upon using some sort of scaling technique.
So hopefully by now you understand how to use scaler even though he probably didn't really need it for
this particular data set.
So now it just comes time to train the model and try our best to evaluate it.
So we'll see Kamins is equal to an instance of Kamins loops.
There we go.
And earlier we saw this method the set K but you could also provide it as a parameter so if you do shift
tab here you can see here that it actually takes in a k value.
So we're going to do is the following will specify that the features column is going to be the scaled
features so will say skill features and then we'll specify K is equal to 3 since we know we expect 3
seed groups and then we're going to do is actually create the model.
So model is that case means object and we'll fit it to all the final data and now once this is done
we're basically done the model.
So what we can do is the following can say WSOC C for the within set some of squirters.
And that's just equal to what we can actually print this.
So I'll say prints within set sum of squared errors and then we will say the following will say print
the model and we can compute the cost on that final dataset.
And so there is are within set some of squared errors.
Now this isn't super helpful because we scale the data but just keep that in mind that you can access
that information if you ever need to.
If you're looking for the cluster centers we can imagine doing is just saying centers is equal to model
cluster centers and then we can print the centers and there you have it some Morais and we have it's
a little sloppy because I'm zoomed in here but you can see here that and this one two three four five
six seven dimensional space or more you can see the centers themselves.
And there's three groups of centers which makes sense because we set K equal to three.
Now what we really want to know probably is the actual predictions.
And that's usually what you're most interested in.
So we can grab those by saying model transform the final data and then we're going to show the results
here.
So we have a bunch of columns here.
So let's actually select the ones we're interested in.
So we're going to say select and we'll say prediction and I can see the prediction for each of the groups
and it's going to start indexing at zero.
So the group possibilities for my prediction are either 0 1 or 2.
And that's basically it.
As far as checking this against some labels you can if you want to because this particular data set
from UCI it did actually come with labels.
I strip those before we started.
But in a realistic setting you wouldn't have those labels otherwise you wouldn't need to do clustering.
Since the beginning.
But hopefully this shows you how you can use k means to discover clusters within your unlabeled data
sets.
OK.
Coming up next is your consulting project.
I think it should be a really fun one.
There's a really cool premise behind it so I'll see in the next lecture.